Extend "feast in production" page  with description of java feature server (#2017)
feast-dev/feast: docs/how-to-guides/running-feast-in-production.md

## Overview

After learning about Feast concepts and playing with Feast locally, you're now ready to use Feast in production.

> This guide aimed to help with the transition from a sandbox project to production-grade deployment in the cloud or on-premise. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide aims to help with the transition from a sandbox project to production-grade deployment in the cloud or on-premise. 
```

Overview of typical production configuration is given below:

![Overview](production-simple.png)

{% hint style="success" %}
**Important note:** Feast is flexible and doesn't require you to install unneeded parts.

> For example, you might not have a stream source and, thus, need to write features in real-time to Online Store. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you might not have a stream source and, thus, no need to write features in real-time to Online Store. 
```

> For example, you might not have a stream source and, thus, no need to write features in real-time to Online Store. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you might not have a stream source and, thus, no need to write features in real-time to an oOnline Store. 
```

> Or you might not need retrieving online features. Feast is ready to adjust to your needs.

Reviewer: Can this sentence be made more clear?

Also, what does "Feast is ready to adjust to your needs" mean?

Author: > Can this sentence be made more clear?
which one?

> Furthermore, there's no single "true" approach. As you will see in this guide, Feast usually provides several options for each problem.

Author: there're two different thoughts:
1. Feast consists of blocks. We try to keep them independent. So the user can choose which one to use and which not.
2. For some problems, like stream write or feature serving we might have several solutions.

> Furthermore, there's no single "true" approach. As you will see in this guide, Feast usually provides several options for each problem.

Author: Rewrote the first paragraph to make it clearer.

1. Deploy your feature store and keep your infrastructure in sync with your feature repository
2. Keep the data in your online store up to date
3. Use Feast for model training and serving

> 4. Ingest features from Streaming Source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Ingest features from streaming Source
```

It is important to note that the CI system above must have access to create, modify, or remove infrastructure in your production environment. This is unlike clients of the feature store, who will only have read access.
{% endhint %}

> If your organization consists of many independent Data Science teams or single team is working on several projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your organization consists of many independent data science teams, or a single team is working on several projects
```

> that could benefit from sharing features / entities / sources / transformations we encourage you to utilize Python packages inside each environment:

Reviewer 3: any thoughts on how collaboration would work here though?

e.g. if we have multiple models in production relying on materialized feature views, we probably shouldn't let users really modify feature views since that can cause issues for those model services right?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that could benefit from sharing features, entities, sources, and transformations, then we encourage you to utilize Python packages inside each environment:
```

It is important to note that the CI system above must have access to create, modify, or remove infrastructure in your production environment. This is unlike clients of the feature store, who will only have read access.
{% endhint %}

> If your organization consists of many independent data science teams, or a single team is working on several projects

Author: It's honestly a pain to edit long lines. Why do we need to keep it all in one line?

The timestamps above should match the interval of data that has been computed by the data transformation system.

### 2.1. Automate periodic materializations 

It is up to you which orchestration / scheduler to use to periodically run `$ feast materialize`.

> However, since Feast keeps history of materialization in its registry the choice could be as simple as unix cron util

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, since Feast keeps the history of materialization in its registry the choice could be as simple as a unix cron util
```

Do beginners know what "unix cron util" is? Should we add a link?

> (if you have just one machine for this job). More complicated cases can be handled with Kubernetes Jobs or Airflow.

Reviewer: | (if you have just one machine for this job)

Seems a bit cryptic.

| More complicated cases can be handled with Kubernetes Jobs or Airflow.

What would be an example of a more complicated case?

> In case of Airflow feast can be invoked with [BashOperator](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/operator/bash.html) after [python SDK](https://pypi.org/project/feast/) was installed into virtual environment and feature repo was synced:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using Airflow as a scheduler, Feast can be invoked through the [BashOperator](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/operator/bash.html) after the [Python SDK](https://pypi.org/project/feast/) has been installed into a virtual environment and your feature repo has been synced:
```

```python
materialize = BashOperator(
    task_id='materialize',
    bash_command='feast materialize-incremental',
)
```

{% hint style="success" %}
Important note: Airflow worker must have read and write permissions to registry file on GS / S3
since it pulls configuration and updates materialization history.
{% endhint %}

## 3. How to prepare data for model training

> Now that you have deployed a registry, provisioned your feature store your clients can start to consume features for training.

Reviewer: This sentence doesn't make sense to me

> First thing we need to do in our training code is to create a `FeatureStore` object with path to the registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first thing we need to do in our training code is to create a `FeatureStore` object with path to the registry.
```

However, with this option materialization work is not distributed, and you might end up limited by the resources of a single machine. 
If you have just a few materialization jobs (usually it's one materialization job per feature view) and you don't run them very frequently, this is fine.
Otherwise, you might want to use a job orchestrator to run multiple jobs in parallel using several workers.
Kubernetes Jobs or Airflow are good choices for more comprehensive job orchestration.

If you are using Airflow as a scheduler, Feast can be invoked through the [BashOperator](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/operator/bash.html) after the [Python SDK](https://pypi.org/project/feast/) has been installed into a virtual environment and your feature repo has been synced:
```python
materialize = BashOperator(
    task_id='materialize',
    bash_command='feast materialize-incremental',
)
```

{% hint style="success" %}
Important note: Airflow worker must have read and write permissions to the registry file on GS / S3
since it pulls configuration and updates materialization history.
{% endhint %}

> ## 3. How to prepare data for model training

Author: In this section we show `get_online_features` for testing model locally as part of training

> ## 3. How to prepare data for model training

Author: So I think I'll revert back to `How to use Feast for model training`

The timestamps above should match the interval of data that has been computed by the data transformation system.

### 2.2. Automate periodic materializations 

It is up to you which orchestration/scheduler to use to periodically run `$ feast materialize`.
Feast keeps the history of materialization in its registry, so the choice could be as simple as a [unix cron util](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron).

> However, with this option materialization work is not distributed, and you might end up limited by the resources of a single machine. 

Reviewer: Should we talk about HOW materialization works and why it's a problem to use Cron? Not clear from these docs.

> If you have just a few materialization jobs (usually it's one materialization job per feature view) and you don't run them very frequently, this is fine.

Reviewer: This sentence is hard to read and I think the tone of the documentation is a bit too casual.

Otherwise, you might want to use a job orchestrator to run multiple jobs in parallel using several workers.
Kubernetes Jobs or Airflow are good choices for more comprehensive job orchestration.

If you are using Airflow as a scheduler, Feast can be invoked through the [BashOperator](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/operator/bash.html) after the [Python SDK](https://pypi.org/project/feast/) has been installed into a virtual environment and your feature repo has been synced:
```python
materialize = BashOperator(
    task_id='materialize',
    bash_command=f'feast materialize-incremental {datetime.datetime.now().replace(microsecond=0).isoformat()}',
)
```

{% hint style="success" %}
Important note: Airflow worker must have read and write permissions to the registry file on GS / S3
since it pulls configuration and updates materialization history.
{% endhint %}

## 3. How to use Feast for model training

After we defined our features and data sources in the repository we can start working on training by generating a training dataset.

> The first thing we need to do in our training code is to create a `FeatureStore` object with a path to the registry.

Reviewer 2: feature repository make more sense because registry may refer to registry.db
```suggestion
The first thing we need to do in our training code is to create a `FeatureStore` object with a path to the feature repository.
```

Author: That's exactly what was meant here. It's the path to registry.db.
Feature Repository on the other hand is where the user keeps her feature definitions.

It is important to note that both the training pipeline and model serving service only needs read access to the feature registry and associated infrastructure. This prevents clients from accidentally making changes to the feature store.
{% endhint %}

## 4. Retrieving online features for prediction

Once you successfully loaded (or in Feast terminology materialized) your data from Batch Source into Online Store you can start consuming features for inference phase.

> There are three approaches for that purpose sorted from the most simple one (in operational sense) to the most performant:

Reviewer 3: maybe call out that we'll be publishing benchmarks to help inform which option makes the most sense?

@tsotnet fyi

> ### 4.1. Python SDK reads directly from Online Store

Reviewer 3: nit: maybe 4.1 Use the python SDK within an existing python service?

also, the language in "But since a lot of Data Science tools are already using Python, and there's a great chance your service will be using it as well, this approach is still pretty valid for production."  is a bit wordy. "still pretty valid for production" also seems mysterious haha. It's also not clear whether you mean that there are a lot of python DS tools that can be useful in production or if the infrastructure engineer might be more comfortable in python because of prior data science exposure.

maybe something like "A benefit to using a python stack is that you can enjoy production grade services with integrations with many existing data science tools"

This approach is the most convenient if you want to keep your infrastructure as minimalistic as possible and avoid deploying extra services.
Python SDK will connect directly to the Online Store (Redis, Datastore, etc), pull the raw data and run transformations locally (if required).

> The obvious drawback is that your service (running the prediction) must be written on Python to use Feast Python SDK. 

Reviewer: prediction or production?

> But since a lot of Data Science tools are already using Python, and there's a great chance your service will be using it as well, this approach is still pretty valid for production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But since a lot of data science tools are already using Python, and there's a great chance your service will be using it as well, this approach is still pretty valid for production.
```

> Retrieving code will be exactly the same as in model testing provided above:

Reviewer: This sentence reads like you are retrieving actual code.

```python
from feast import FeatureStore

with open('feature_refs.json', 'r') as f:
    feature_refs = json.loads(f)

fs = FeatureStore(repo_path="production/")

# Read online features
feature_vector = fs.get_online_features(
    feature_refs=feature_refs,
    entity_rows=[{"driver_id": 1001}]
).to_dict()
```

> 

Reviewer 3: nit: remove the extra blank line?

### 4.2. Consume features via HTTP API from Serverless Feature Server

> In case if you don't want to add Feast Python SDK as your dependency, or your service's language is not Python,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if you don't want to add the Feast Python SDK as a dependency, or your feature retrieval service is written in a non-Python language,
```

> but in the meantime you don't want to support complex infrastructure, Feast can deploy simple Feature Server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Feast can deploy simple Feature Server
```

on serverless infrastructure (eg, AWS Lambda, Google Cloud Function) for you.

> This service will provide HTTP API with JSON I/O, which can be easily used with any programming language.

Reviewer 3: nit: "This service will provide _an_ HTTP API"

[Read more about this feature](../reference/alpha-aws-lambda-feature-server.md)

### 4.3. Java based Feature Server deployed on Kubernetes

> For customers looking for the lowest latency on high QPS Feast offers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For users looking for the lowest latency on high QPS Feast offers
```

high performant Java implementation of Feature Server. Besides benefits of running on JVM, this implementation also provides gRPC API, which guarantees good connection utilization and 
small request / response body size (in comparison to JSON). 
You will probably need Feast Java SDK or Feast Go SDK to retrieve features from this service. Those SDKs will wrap all gRPC logic for you and instead will provide more convenient APIs. 

> Java based Feature Server can be deployed to Kubernetes cluster via Helm charts in few simple steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Java based Feature Server can be deployed to Kubernetes cluster via Helm charts in a few simple steps:
```

If you are using Kafka, [HTTP Sink](https://docs.confluent.io/kafka-connect-http/current/overview.html) could be utilized as middleware.
In this case "Push Service" can be deployed in Kubernetes or as Serverless function. 

## 6. Monitoring

Feast Services can report their metrics to StatsD-compatible collector. In order to activate this function provide StatsD IP address and port when deploying helm chart (in future will be added to `feature_store.yaml`).

We use [InfluxDB-style extension](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter#tagging-extensions) for StatsD format to be able to send tags along with metrics. Keep that in mind while selecting the collector ([telegraph](https://www.influxdata.com/blog/getting-started-with-sending-statsd-metrics-to-telegraf-influxdb/#introducing-influx-statsd) will work for sure).

We chose StatsD since it's de-facto a standard with various implementations (eg, [1](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter), [2](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/blob/master/plugins/inputs/statsd/README.md))
and metrics could be easily exported to Prometheus, InfluxDB, AWS CloudWatch, etc.

---

> Summarizing it all together we want to show several options of architecture that will be most frequently used in production:

Reviewer 3: This could make sense to also show at the very beginning of the guide

For seamless integration with Kubernetes (including services created by Feast Helm chart) we recommend using [Istio](https://istio.io/) as Envoy's orchestrator.

## 5. Ingesting features from a Stream Source

Recently Feast added functionality for [Stream Ingestion](../reference/alpha-stream-ingestion.md).
Please note that this is still in an early phase and new incompatible changes may be introduced.

### 5.1. Using Python SDK in your Apache Spark / Beam pipeline

The default option to write features from a stream is to add Python SDK into your existing PySpark / Beam pipeline.
Feast SDK provides writer implementation that can be called from `foreachBatch` stream writer in PySpark like this:

```python
store = FeatureStore(...)

def feast_writer(spark_df):
    pandas_df = spark_df.to_pandas()
    store.write_to_online_store("driver_hourly_stats", pandas_df)

streamingDF.writeStream.foreachBatch(feast_writer).start()
```

### 5.2. Push service *(still under development)*

Alternatively, if you want to ingest features directly from a broker (eg, Kafka or Kinesis) you can use "Push Service", which will write to Online Store on push call.

> This service will expose an HTTP API or when deployed on Serverless platform as Lambda Function or Google Cloud Function,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This service will expose an HTTP API or when deployed on Serverless platforms like AWS Lambda or Google Cloud Function,
```

this service can be directly connected to Kinesis or PubSub.

If you are using Kafka, [HTTP Sink](https://docs.confluent.io/kafka-connect-http/current/overview.html) could be utilized as middleware.
In this case "Push Service" can be deployed on Kubernetes or as a Serverless function. 

> 

Reviewer 3: nit: remove extra line

## 6. Monitoring

> Feast Services can report their metrics to the StatsD-compatible collector. To activate this function provide StatsD IP address and port when deploying helm chart (in future will be added to `feature_store.yaml`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Feast Services can report their metrics to a StatsD-compatible collector. To activate this function, you'll need to provide a StatsD IP address and a port when deploying the helm chart (in future will be added to `feature_store.yaml`).
```

We use [InfluxDB-style extension](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter#tagging-extensions) for StatsD format to be able to send tags along with metrics. Keep that in mind while selecting the collector ([telegraph](https://www.influxdata.com/blog/getting-started-with-sending-statsd-metrics-to-telegraf-influxdb/#introducing-influx-statsd) will work for sure).

We chose StatsD since it's de-facto a standard with various implementations (eg, [1](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter), [2](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/blob/master/plugins/inputs/statsd/README.md))
and metrics could be easily exported to Prometheus, InfluxDB, AWS CloudWatch, etc.

---

> 

Reviewer 3: Can probably add a separate heading for this summary section

Summarizing it all together we want to show several options of architecture that will be most frequently used in production:

> ### Option #1 (currently preffered)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Option #1 (currently preferred)
```

* Feast SDK is being triggered by CI (eg, Github Actions). It applies the latest changes from Repository to Feast Registry
* Airflow manages materialization jobs to ingest data from DWH to Online Store periodically
* For stream ingestion Feast Python SDK is used in the existing Spark / Beam pipeline

> * Online Features are served with high performant Java Feature Server

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Online Features are served via either a Python feature server or a high performance Java Feature Server
```

We do allow users to also integrate this into their existing services too though right? e.g. using the python SDK in a python server. I think our story is a little weaker on the java side if the user doesn't want to have a separate Java feature server (the Java SDK afaict wraps grpc calls to a feast serving instance)

```

{% hint style="success" %}
It is important to note that both the training pipeline and model serving service need only read access to the feature registry and associated infrastructure. This prevents clients from accidentally making changes to the feature store.
{% endhint %}

## 4. Retrieving online features for prediction

Once you have successfully loaded (or in Feast terminology materialized) your data from batch sources into the online store, you can start consuming features for model inference.
There are three approaches for that purpose sorted from the most simple one (in an operational sense) to the most performant (benchmarks to be published soon):

### 4.1. Use the Python SDK within an existing Python service

This approach is the most convenient if you want to keep your infrastructure as minimalistic as possible and avoid deploying extra services.

> Python SDK will connect directly to the Online Store (Redis, Datastore, etc), pull the raw data, and run transformations locally (if required).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Feast Python SDK will connect directly to the online store (Redis, Datastore, etc), pull the feature data, and run transformations locally (if required).
```

> The obvious drawback is that your service must be written on Python to use the Feast Python SDK. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The obvious drawback is that your service must be written in Python to use the Feast Python SDK. 
```

A benefit of using a Python stack is that you can enjoy production-grade services with integrations with many existing data science tools.

To integrate online retrieval into your service use the following code:
```python
from feast import FeatureStore

with open('feature_refs.json', 'r') as f:
    feature_refs = json.loads(f)

fs = FeatureStore(repo_path="production/")

# Read online features
feature_vector = fs.get_online_features(

>     feature_refs=feature_refs,

Reviewer 3: for this and the other places we use get_X_features, we should probably change it to use features instead of feature_refs since that's the new API

    entity_rows=[{"driver_id": 1001}]
).to_dict()
```

### 4.2. Consume features via HTTP API from Serverless Feature Server

> if you don't want to add the Feast Python SDK as a dependency, or your feature retrieval service is written in a non-Python language,

Reviewer: Typo

Feast can deploy a simple feature server

> on serverless infrastructure (eg, AWS Lambda, Google Cloud Function) for you.

Reviewer 3: btw nit: the plan is to use google cloud run since that allows you to run docker images

Please note that this is still in an early phase and new incompatible changes may be introduced.

### 5.1. Using Python SDK in your Apache Spark / Beam pipeline

The default option to write features from a stream is to add Python SDK into your existing PySpark / Beam pipeline.
Feast SDK provides writer implementation that can be called from `foreachBatch` stream writer in PySpark like this:

```python
store = FeatureStore(...)

def feast_writer(spark_df):
    pandas_df = spark_df.to_pandas()
    store.write_to_online_store("driver_hourly_stats", pandas_df)

streamingDF.writeStream.foreachBatch(feast_writer).start()
```

### 5.2. Push service *(still under development)*

Alternatively, if you want to ingest features directly from a broker (eg, Kafka or Kinesis) you can use "push service", which will write to online store on push call.
This service will expose an HTTP API or when deployed on Serverless platforms like AWS Lambda or Google Cloud Function,
this service can be directly connected to Kinesis or PubSub.

If you are using Kafka, [HTTP Sink](https://docs.confluent.io/kafka-connect-http/current/overview.html) could be utilized as middleware.

> In this case "push service" can be deployed on Kubernetes or as a Serverless function.

Reviewer 3: Any reason why "push service" is in quotes?

```suggestion
In this case, the "push service" can be deployed on Kubernetes or as a Serverless function.
```

## 6. Monitoring

> Feast Services can report their metrics to a StatsD-compatible collector. To activate this function, you'll need to provide a StatsD IP address and a port when deploying the helm chart (in future will be added to `feature_store.yaml`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Feast services can report their metrics to a StatsD-compatible collector. To activate this function, you'll need to provide a StatsD IP address and a port when deploying the helm chart (in future, this will be added to `feature_store.yaml`).
```

We chose StatsD since it's a de-facto standard with various implementations (eg, [1](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter), [2](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/blob/master/plugins/inputs/statsd/README.md))
and metrics can be easily exported to Prometheus, InfluxDB, AWS CloudWatch, etc.

---
## Summary

Summarizing it all together we want to show several options of architecture that will be most frequently used in production:

### Option #1 (currently preferred)

* Feast SDK is being triggered by CI (eg, Github Actions). It applies the latest changes from the feature repo to the Feast registry
* Airflow manages materialization jobs to ingest data from DWH to online store periodically
* For stream ingestion Feast Python SDK is used in the existing Spark / Beam pipeline
* Online features are served via either a Python feature server or a high performance Java feature server

>   * Both Java feature server and transformation service are deployed on Kubernetes cluster (via Helm chart)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * Both the Java feature server and the transformation server are deployed on Kubernetes cluster s (via Helm charts)
```

To integrate online retrieval into your service use the following code:
```python
from feast import FeatureStore

with open('feature_refs.json', 'r') as f:
    feature_refs = json.loads(f)

fs = FeatureStore(repo_path="production/")

# Read online features
feature_vector = fs.get_online_features(
    feature_refs=feature_refs,
    entity_rows=[{"driver_id": 1001}]
).to_dict()
```

### 4.2. Consume features via HTTP API from Serverless Feature Server

if you don't want to add the Feast Python SDK as a dependency, or your feature retrieval service is written in a non-Python language,
Feast can deploy a simple feature server
on serverless infrastructure (eg, AWS Lambda, Google Cloud Function) for you.
This service will provide an HTTP API with JSON I/O, which can be easily used with any programming language.

[Read more about this feature](../reference/alpha-aws-lambda-feature-server.md)

### 4.3. Java based Feature Server deployed on Kubernetes

For users with very latency-sensitive and high QPS use-cases, Feast offers a high-performance Java feature server.

> high performant Java implementation of feature server. Besides the benefits of running on JVM, this implementation also provides gRPC API, which guarantees good connection utilization and 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Besides the benefits of running on JVM, this implementation also provides a gRPC API, which guarantees good connection utilization and 
```

small request / response body size (in comparison to JSON). 

> You will probably need Feast Java SDK to retrieve features from this service. Those SDKs will wrap all gRPC logic for you and instead will provide more convenient APIs. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You will need the Feast Java SDK to retrieve features from this service. This SDK wraps all the gRPC logic for you and provides more convenient APIs. 
```

The Java based feature server can be deployed to Kubernetes cluster via Helm charts in a few simple steps:

1. Install [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) and [helm 3](https://helm.sh/)
2. Add the Feast Helm repository and download the latest charts:
```
helm repo add feast-charts https://feast-helm-charts.storage.googleapis.com
helm repo update
```
3. Run Helm Install
```
helm install feast-release feast-charts/feast \
    --set global.registry.path=s3://feast/registries/prod \
    --set global.project=<project name>
```

This chart will deploy two services: `feature-server` and `transformation-service`.
Both must have read access to the registry file on cloud storage. Both will keep a copy of the registry in their memory and periodically refresh it.
, so expect some delays in update propagation in exchange for better performance.

#### Load balancing

The next step would be to install an L7 Load Balancer (eg, [Envoy](https://www.envoyproxy.io/)) in front of the Java feature server.

> For seamless integration with Kubernetes (including services created by Feast Helm chart) we recommend using [Istio](https://istio.io/) as Envoy's orchestrator.

Reviewer 3: Might be worth calling out that Istio also allows for an auth layer on top of Feast

Author: Istio allows a lot of stuff on top of Feast. I think having a link to their site is enough.

```python
store = FeatureStore(...)

def feast_writer(spark_df):
    pandas_df = spark_df.to_pandas()
    store.write_to_online_store("driver_hourly_stats", pandas_df)

streamingDF.writeStream.foreachBatch(feast_writer).start()
```

### 5.2. Push service *(still under development)*

Alternatively, if you want to ingest features directly from a broker (eg, Kafka or Kinesis) you can use "Push Service", which will write to Online Store on push call.
This service will expose an HTTP API or when deployed on Serverless platforms like AWS Lambda or Google Cloud Function,
this service can be directly connected to Kinesis or PubSub.

If you are using Kafka, [HTTP Sink](https://docs.confluent.io/kafka-connect-http/current/overview.html) could be utilized as middleware.
In this case "Push Service" can be deployed on Kubernetes or as a Serverless function.

## 6. Monitoring

Feast Services can report their metrics to a StatsD-compatible collector. To activate this function, you'll need to provide a StatsD IP address and a port when deploying the helm chart (in future will be added to `feature_store.yaml`).

> We use [InfluxDB-style extension](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter#tagging-extensions) for StatsD format to be able to send tags along with metrics. Keep that in mind while selecting the collector ([telegraph](https://www.influxdata.com/blog/getting-started-with-sending-statsd-metrics-to-telegraf-influxdb/#introducing-influx-statsd) will work for sure).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We use an [InfluxDB-style extension](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter#tagging-extensions) for StatsD format to be able to send tags along with metrics. Keep that in mind while selecting the collector ([telegraph](https://www.influxdata.com/blog/getting-started-with-sending-statsd-metrics-to-telegraf-influxdb/#introducing-influx-statsd) will work for sure).
```

> We chose StatsD since it's de-facto a standard with various implementations (eg, [1](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter), [2](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/blob/master/plugins/inputs/statsd/README.md))

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We chose StatsD since it's a de-facto standard with various implementations (eg, [1](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter), [2](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/blob/master/plugins/inputs/statsd/README.md))
```

> and metrics could be easily exported to Prometheus, InfluxDB, AWS CloudWatch, etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and metrics can be easily exported to Prometheus, InfluxDB, AWS CloudWatch, etc.
```

---
## Summary

Summarizing it all together we want to show several options of architecture that will be most frequently used in production:

### Option #1 (currently preferred)

> * Feast SDK is being triggered by CI (eg, Github Actions). It applies the latest changes from Repository to Feast Registry

Reviewer 3: Nit: we typically don't capitalize things anymore unless it is referring to a class name.

```suggestion
* Feast SDK is being triggered by CI (eg, Github Actions). It applies the latest changes from the feature repo to the Feast registry
```

* Airflow manages materialization jobs to ingest data from DWH to Online Store periodically
* For stream ingestion Feast Python SDK is used in the existing Spark / Beam pipeline
* Online Features are served via either a Python feature server or a high performance Java feature server

> * Both Java feature server and Transformation Service are deployed on Kubernetes cluster (via Helm Chart)

Reviewer 3: Have the java feature server as a sub-bullet?
